#labels Featured
=Version 1.3.195 - Jan 15, 2011=

===Fixed:===
  * [http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/issues/detail?id=6&can=1 Issue 7 - PooledDisplayObjectClass initializer not working]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/issues/detail?id=8&can=1 Issue 8 - Changing the displayObjectClass for PooledDisplayObjectClass]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/issues/detail?id=9&can=1 Issue 9 - LazySectorZone now properly serializing to XML]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/issues/detail?id=10&can=1 Issue 10 - Field not properly serializing in]

----

==Version 1.3.193 - Jan 13, 2011==

===Added:===
  * Support for [http://code.google.com/p/pyronova/ Pyronova Bitmap Rendering Engine].

----

==Version 1.3.186 - Jan 8, 2011==

===Added:===
  * Support for Away3D and Away3DLite.

===Modified===
  * Migrated from renderers to particle handlers. See [http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/wiki/MigrationForStardust1_3 Migration for Stardust 1.3].
  * ParticleIterator.particle getter changed to ParticleIterator.particle() for better performance.

----

==Version 1.2.169 - Jan 2, 2011==

===Added:===
  * Support for Alternativa3D.

----

==Version 1.2.163 - Aug 3, 2010==

===Modified:===
  * Stardust now uses [http://code.google.com/p/cjsignals/ CJSignals] observer framework instead of the native event system.

----

==Version 1.1.161 - Jun 7, 2010==

===Added:===
  * Emitter.preStep() and Emitter.postStep() methods.
  * Emitter.particleCollection property for switching between preferred collection types.

===Fixed:===
  * ParticleFastArray.size getter returns NaN.

===Modified:===
  * Many methods are now marked final to improve performance.

----

==Version 1.1.151 - May 25, 2010==

===Added:===
  * Flare3D engine support.
  * Flare3D initializers - Flare3DPivot3DClass, Flare3DPivot3DClone, and Flare3DSprite3D.
  * Flare3D renderers - Flare3DPivot3DRenderer and Flare3DSprite3DRenderer.

----

==Version 1.1.148 - May 21, 2010==

* Version 1.1 initial release (fast-array implementation).

===Added:===
  * ParticleFastArray and ParticleFastArrayIterator classes.

===Improved:===
  * Smaller compiled file size (usually around 25kb).

===Modified:===
  * The default internal array collections for emitters are now fast arrays.

----

==Version 1.1.138 Beta - Feb 27, 2010==

===Fixed:===
  * Circular linked lists caused by using multiple emitters.
  * Orphan display objects caused by using multiple emitters.

===Modified:===
  * Emitter.getParticles() method changed to Emitter.particles getter method.

----

==Version 1.1.132 Beta - Dec 27, 2009==

  * Version 1.1 Beta initial release (linked-list implementation).

===Added:===
  * Particle collection interfaces: ParticleCollection, ParticleIterator.
  * Particle collection classes: ParticleList, ParticleListIterator.

===Modified:===
  * All Stardust classes now conform to the particle collection interfaces.

----

==Version 1.0.130 Beta - Dec 24, 2009==

===Modified:===
  * Renderer.particlesCreated() method renamed to Renderer.particlesAdded() to be consistent with the EmitterEvent.PARTICLES_ADDED event type name.

----


==Version 1.0.127 Beta - Dec 12, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * XMLBuilder.traverseRelatedObjects() method crashes when a null element is encountered.

===Added:===
  * DeflectorTrigger & DeflectorTrigger3D.

===Modified:===
  * Deflect & Deflect3D now work with DeflectorTrigger & DeflectorTrigger3D.

----

==Version 1.0.124 Beta - Dec 10, 2009==

===Added:===
  * ZBBillboardOriented action for ZedBox extension.

===Modified:===
  * CalculateScreenVelocity action removed, replaced by internal operation in DisplayObjectRenderer3D.
  * ZBDisplayObjectClass now uses object pool to boost ZedSprite instantiation performance.

----

==Version 1.0.119 Beta - Dec 3, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * Oriented and Oriented3D actions time scale bug fixed. (This bug only affects you if your time scale is not set to one)

===Added:===
  * IStardustSprite interface.
  * StardustMovieClip class;
  * StardustSpriteInit and StardustSpriteInit3D initializers. 
  * StardustSpriteUpdate and StardustSpriteUpdate3D actions.
  * PooledDisplayObject and PooledDisplayObject3D initializers.

----

==Version 1.0.110 Beta - Nov 28, 2009==

===Modified:===
  * Default XML parsing behaviors added to all Stardust elements. Now you don't have to provide a complete XML data to the StardustElement.parseXML() method.

----

==Version 1.0.110 Beta - Oct 22, 2009==

===Modified:===
  * XMLBuilder now does not register any classes by default, lowering the compiled program's file size.

----

==Version 1.0.106 Beta - Sep 25, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * Memory leakage due to Vec2D objects not properly recycled in the CircleDeflector, LineDeflector, SphereDeflector, and PlaneDeflector classes. ([http://code.google.com/p/stardust-particle-engine/issues/detail?id=2&can=1 issue2])

----

==Version 1.0.101 Beta - Sep 8, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * BitmapZone.contains() was not overriden.

===Modified:===
  * Redundant class imports cleaned up.

----

==Version 1.0.96 Beta - Sep 7, 2009==

===Added:===
  * Emitter.getParticles.getParticles() method.
  * PixelBurster class.
  * Snapshot, Snapshot3D classes.
  * SnapshotRestore, SnapshotRestore3D classes.
  * SnapshotRestoreFlag, SnapshotRestore3DFlag classes.
  * SnapshotRestoreEvent, SnapshotRestore3DEvent classes.

===Modified:===
  * StardustElement class now extends EventDispatcher class.

----

==Version 1.0.90 Beta - Sep 1, 2009==

===Modified:===
  * BitmapRenderer, PixelRenderer, and SingularBitmapRenderer now make use of the BitmapData.lock() and unlock() methods to improve bitmap drawing performance.

----

==Version 1.0.90 Beta - Aug 30, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * ScaleCurve and AlphaCurve constructor parameters, inFunction and outFunction, do not work properly.
  * LazySectorZone XML conversion is incorrect.
  * Multiple XMLBuilder.buildFromXML() calls result in memory leak, due to use of Dictionary.

----

==Version 1.0.88 Beta - Aug 28, 2009==

===Added:===
  * ActionTrigger2D class, base class for 2D action triggers.
  * ActionTrigger3D class, base class for 3D action triggers.

===Modified:===
  * ZoneTrigger now extends ActionTrigger2D.
  * ZoneTrigger3D now extends ActionTrigger3D.

----

==Version 1.0.84 Beta - Aug 25, 2009==

===Modified:===
  * Added default parameters for all StardustElement subclass constructors (otherwise it induces errors when using the XMLBuilder().buildFromXML() method).

----

==Version 1.0.80 Beta - Aug 25, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * Some vectors are recycled before a function ends.

===Modified:===
  * Deflect action priority decreased, higher than Move & Spin actions by one.

----

==Version 1.0.74 Beta - Aug 24, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * Mass.getXMLTagName() method returns "Life" instead of "Mass".

===Modified:===
  * XMLBuilder.buildXML() XML tag sorting function changed to alphabetical.

----

==Version 1.0.70 Beta - Aug 23, 2009==

===Added:===
  * FollowWaypoints action.
  * FollowWaypoints3D action.
  * Waypoint and Waypoint3D classes.
  * StardustElement.getElementTypeXMLTag() method.

===Modified:===
  * XMLBuilder.buildXML() method modified for flexibility for custom element types.

----

==Version 1.0.67 Beta - Aug 23, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * PixelRenderer ends render loop upon encountering a particle not requiring rendering.

----

==Version 1.0.64 Beta - Aug 20, 2009==

===Fixed:===
  * MutualAction masking problem.

----

==Version 1.0.59 Beta - Aug 19, 2009==

===Added:===
  * Color initializer.
  * PixelRenderer renderer.

----

==Version 1.0.44 Beta - Aug 13, 2009==

  * Version 1.0 Beta initial release.